--- BUSINESS ---
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Our Company
NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. Starting with a focus on PC graphics, we extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of artificial intelligence, or AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA leveraged its GPU architecture to create platforms for virtual reality, or VR, high performance computing, or HPC, and AI.
The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing capabilities, supported by up to thousands of computing cores, are essential to running deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in which software writes itself by learning from data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered deep learning continues to be adopted by thousands of enterprises to deliver services and features that would have been impossible with traditional coding.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, system software, programmable algorithms, libraries, systems, and services to create unique value for the markets we serve. While the requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third party developers and partners. The large and growing number of developers across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our platform to our customers.
Innovation is at our core. We invested over $20 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 defined modern computer graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader in visual computing. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of the GPU for general purpose computing. This approach significantly accelerates the performance of the most demanding applications in HPC in fields such as aerospace, bio-science research, mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. Today, our GPUs power many of the fastest supercomputers across the world. In addition, the massively parallel compute architecture of our GPUs and associated software are well suited for deep learning and machine learning, powering the era of AI. While traditional CPU-based approaches no longer deliver advances on the pace described by Moore’s Law, we deliver GPU performance improvements on a pace ahead of Moore’s Law, giving the industry a path forward.
Gamers choose NVIDIA GPUs to enjoy immersive, increasingly cinematic virtual worlds. GPUs also help underpin the world’s fastest growing spectator sport, eSports, which attracts hundreds of millions of viewers to watch top-quality gaming. A rapidly growing genre of Battle Royale games, such as Fortnite, is also expanding the gaming market.
Researchers use our GPUs to accelerate a wide range of important applications, from simulating molecular dynamics to weather forecasting. With support for more than over 600 applications - including the top 15 HPC applications - NVIDIA GPUs enable some of the most promising areas of discovery, from weather prediction to materials science and from wind tunnel simulation to genomics. NVIDIA GPUs power the top two supercomputers in the world, located at Oak Ridge and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories in the United States, as well as the top supercomputers in Europe and Japan. In all, NVIDIA powers 136 of the TOP500 supercomputers.
The world’s leading cloud service providers use our GPUs to enable, accelerate or enrich the services they deliver to billions of end-users, including search, social networking, online shopping, live video, translation, AI assistants, navigation, and cloud computing. 
A rapidly growing number of enterprises and startups use our GPUs for deep learning that meets, and in several cases surpasses, human perception, in fields ranging from radiology to precision agriculture. For example, the transportation industry is turning to our GPUs and AI to enable autonomous vehicles, or AVs, with several hundred companies and organizations working with NVIDIA’s DRIVE platform. 
Professional designers use our GPUs to create visual effects in movies and design products ranging from soft drink bottles to commercial aircraft.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
Our Businesses
Our two reportable segments - GPU and Tegra Processor - are based on a single underlying architecture. Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for game consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.

GPU               ∙   GeForce for PC gaming and mainstream PCs                                                                                                            
                  ∙   GeForce NOW for cloud-based gaming                                                                                                                  
                  ∙   Quadro for design professionals working in computer-aided design, video editing, special effects, and other creative applications                   
                  ∙   Tesla for AI utilizing deep learning and accelerated computing, leveraging the parallel computing capabilities of GPUs for general purpose computing
                  ∙   GRID to provide the power of NVIDIA graphics through the cloud and data centers                                                                     
                  ∙   DGX for AI scientists, researchers and developers                                                                                                   
                  ∙   EGX for accelerated AI computing at the edge                                                                                                        
Tegra Processor   ∙   Tegra processors are primarily designed to enable branded platforms - AGX and SHIELD                                                                
                  ∙   SHIELD devices and services designed to harness the power of mobile-cloud to revolutionize home entertainment, AI and gaming                        
                  ∙   AGX is a power-efficient AI computing platform for intelligent edge devices, including:                                                             
                      - DRIVE AGX for self-driving vehicles                                                                                                               
                      - Clara AGX for medical instruments                                                                                                                 
                      - Jetson AGX for robotics and other embedded use                                                                                                    
Our Markets
We specialize in markets in which GPU-based visual computing and accelerated computing platforms can provide tremendous throughput for applications. These platforms incorporate processors, systems software, programmable algorithms, systems, and services to deliver value that is unique in the marketplace. From our proprietary processors, we created platforms that address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Gaming, Professional Visualization, Data Center, and Automotive.
Gaming
Computer gaming is the largest entertainment industry. Many factors propel computer gaming’s growth, including new high production value games and franchises, the rise of competitive online gaming, eSports, and the rise of virtual and augmented reality.
Our GPUs enhance the gaming experience by improving the visual quality of graphics, increasing the frame rate for smoother gameplay and improving realism by incorporating the behavior of light and physical objects. These can be enjoyed independently or together to extend the gaming experience across platforms.
Our gaming platforms utilize sophisticated 3D software and algorithms, including our GameWorks libraries that provide special effects for games. We further enhance gaming with GeForce Experience, our gaming application that optimizes the PC user’s settings for each title and enables players to record and share gameplay. 
We developed NVIDIA RTX ray tracing technology to enable real-time, cinematic-quality rendering in the RTX line-up of our gaming platforms. Ray tracing, which has long been used for special effects in the movie industry, is a computationally intensive technique that simulates the physical behavior of light to achieve greater realism in computer-generated scenes.
To enable VR, we provide developers with a suite of software libraries called VRWorks. VRWorks allows developers to create fully immersive experiences by enabling physically realistic visuals, sound, touch interactions, and simulated environments. VR requires advanced high-performance GPUs as the engine to simulate complete immersion.
Our products for the gaming market include GeForce RTX and GeForce GTX GPUs for PC gaming, SHIELD devices for gaming and streaming, GeForce NOW for cloud-based gaming, as well as platforms and development services for specialized console gaming devices.
Professional Visualization
We serve the Professional Visualization market by working closely with independent software vendors to optimize their offerings for NVIDIA GPUs. Our GPU computing solutions enhance productivity and introduce new capabilities for critical parts of the workflow for such major industries as automotive, media and entertainment, architectural engineering, oil and gas, and medical imaging. 
Designers who build the products we use every day need the images that they view digitally to mirror reality. This requires simulating the physical behavior of light and materials, or physically-based rendering, an emerging trend in professional design. Our DesignWorks software delivers this to designers and enables an architect designing a building with a computer-aided design package to interact with the model in real time, view it in greater detail, and generate photorealistic renderings for the client. It also allows an automotive designer to create a highly realistic 3D image of a car, which can be viewed from all angles, reducing reliance on costly, time-consuming full-scale clay models.
During fiscal year 2019, we introduced the NVIDIA RTX platform, making it possible to render film-quality, photorealistic objects and environments with physically accurate shadows, reflections and refractions using ray tracing in real-time. Through fiscal year 2020, many leading 3D design and content creation applications developed by our ecosystem partners enabled support for RTX, allowing professionals to accelerate and transform their workflows with NVIDIA RTX GPUs.
Just as VR is becoming more important in gaming, it is also being incorporated in a growing number of enterprise applications, including within medicine, architecture, product design, and retail. Virtual car showrooms, surgical training, architectural walkthroughs, and bringing historical scenes to life all deploy this technology, powered by our GPUs.
Visual computing is vital to productivity in many environments, including design and manufacturing and digital content creation. Design and manufacturing includes computer-aided design, architectural design, consumer-products manufacturing, medical instrumentation, and aerospace. Digital content creation includes professional video editing and post production, special effects for films, and broadcast-television graphics.
Our brand for this market is Quadro for workstations. Quadro GPUs enhance the productivity of designers by improving performance and adding functionality, such as photorealistic rendering, high color fidelity, and advanced scalable display capabilities. 
Data Center
The NVIDIA accelerated computing platform addresses AI and HPC applications. The platform consists of our energy efficient GPUs, our CUDA programming language, specific libraries such as cuDNN and TensorRT, and innovations such as NVLink and NVSwitch interconnects, which enable application scalability across multiple GPUs.
In the field of AI, NVIDIA’s platform accelerates both deep learning and machine learning workloads. Deep learning is a computer science approach where neural networks are trained to recognize patterns from massive amounts of data in the form of images, sounds and text - in some instances better than humans. Machine learning is a related approach that leverages algorithms as well as data to learn how to make determinations or predictions, often used in data science. HPC, also referred to as scientific computing, uses numerical computational approaches to solve large and complex problems. For both AI and HPC applications, the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform greatly increases the performance and power efficiency of high-performance computers and data centers, as GPUs excel at parallel workloads. 
We are engaged with thousands of organizations working on AI in a multitude of industries, from automating tasks such as reading medical images, to enabling fraud detection in financial services, to optimizing oil exploration and drilling. These organizations include the world’s leading cloud services companies such as Amazon, Baidu, and Facebook, which are infusing AI in applications that enable highly accurate voice recognition and real-time translation; enterprises that are increasingly turning to AI to improve products and services; and startups seeking to implement AI in transformative ways across multiple industries. We partnered with industry leaders such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, and VMware to bring AI to enterprise users. We also have partnerships in healthcare and manufacturing, among others, to accelerate the adoption of AI.
To enable deep learning and machine learning, we provide a family of GPUs designed to speed up training and inferencing of neural networks. They are available in industry standard servers from every major computer maker worldwide, including Cisco, Dell, HP, Inspur, and Lenovo; from every major cloud service provider such as Alicloud, Amazon Web Services, Baidu Cloud, Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, Microsoft Azure, and Oracle Cloud; as well as in our DGX AI supercomputer, a purpose-built system for deep learning and GPU accelerated applications. DGX delivers performance equal to hundreds of conventional servers, comes fully integrated with hardware, software, development tools, support for AI frameworks, and runs popular accelerated applications. We also offer the NVIDIA GPU Cloud, or NGC, a comprehensive catalog of easy-to-use, optimized 
software stacks across a range of domains including scientific computing, deep learning, and machine learning. With NGC, AI developers, researchers and data scientists can get started with the development of AI and HPC applications and deploy them on DGX systems, NGC-ready workstations or servers from our systems partners, or with NVIDIA’s cloud partners such as Amazon, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, or Oracle Cloud.
GPUs also increase the speed of applications used in such fields as aerospace, bio-science research, mechanical and fluid simulations, and energy exploration. GPUs have significantly impacted scientific discovery, including improving heart surgery, mapping human genome folds, seismic modeling, and weather simulations.
Accelerated computing is recognized as the path forward for computing amid the slowing of Moore’s Law. The proportion of supercomputers utilizing accelerators has grown sharply over the past five years, now accounting for a significant proportion of both the total systems on the TOP500 list, which ranks the 500 most powerful commercially available computer systems, and the list’s total floating-point operations per second. Tesla GPU accelerators power many of the world’s fastest supercomputers, including the U.S. Department of Energy’s Summit and Sierra supercomputers at Oak Ridge and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories, Europe’s fastest supercomputer - Piz Daint - in Switzerland, Japan’s fastest supercomputer, ABCI; and the world’s fastest industrial supercomputer by Italian energy company Eni. 
We also serve the data center market with GRID for virtualized graphics and Virtual Compute Server for virtualized AI and data science. GRID makes it possible to run graphics-intensive applications remotely on a server in the data center. Applications include accelerating virtual desktop infrastructures and delivering graphics-intensive applications from the cloud for industries such as manufacturing, healthcare, and educational institutions, among others. Virtual Compute Server (vComputeServer) enables data centers to accelerate server virtualization with GPUs so that the most compute-intensive workloads, such as artificial intelligence, deep learning, and data science, can be run in a virtual machine.
Automotive
NVIDIA’s Automotive market is comprised of cockpit infotainment solutions, AV platforms, and associated development agreements. Leveraging our technology leadership in AI and building on our long-standing automotive relationships, we are delivering a full solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand. NVIDIA has demonstrated multiple applications of AI within the car. AI can drive the car itself as a pilot, in either partial or fully autonomous mode. AI can also be a co-pilot, assisting the human driver in creating a safer driving experience.
NVIDIA is working with several hundred partners in the automotive ecosystem including automakers, truck makers, tier-one suppliers, sensor manufacturers, automotive research institutions, HD mapping companies, and startups to develop and deploy AI systems for self-driving vehicles. Our unified AI computing architecture starts with training deep neural networks using our GPUs, and then running them within the vehicle on the NVIDIA DRIVE computing platform. The platform consists of high-performance, energy efficient hardware - DRIVE AGX, and open, modular software - including DRIVE AV for autonomous driving and DRIVE IX for in-vehicle AI assistance. In addition, we offer a scalable simulation solution, NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation, for testing and validating a self-driving platform before commercial deployment. This end-to-end, software-defined approach allows cars to receive over-the-air updates to add new features and capabilities throughout the life of a vehicle.
NVIDIA DRIVE can perceive and understand in real-time what's happening around the vehicle, precisely locate itself on an HD map, and plan a safe path forward. This advanced self-driving car platform combines deep learning, sensor fusion, and surround vision to change the driving experience. Our DRIVE platform scales from a palm-sized, energy-efficient module for automated highway-driving capabilities to a configuration with multiple systems aimed at enabling driverless cars. Our Xavier SoC, which started shipping in 2018, enables vehicles to use deep neural networks to process data from multiple cameras and sensors. It powers the DRIVE AutoPilot, NVIDIA’s Level 2+ automated driving solution, combining the DRIVE AV self-driving solution with the DRIVE IX cockpit software, including a visualization system for allowing the driver to see what the car sees and plans to do. In fiscal year 2020, we announced our next-generation SoC, Orin, targeting mass production in 2022.
Business Strategies
NVIDIA’s key strategies that shape our overall business approach include:
Advancing the GPU computing platform. The massive parallel processing capabilities of NVIDIA GPUs can solve complex problems in significantly less time and with lower power consumption than alternative computational approaches. Indeed, GPUs can help solve problems that were previously deemed unsolvable. We work to deliver continued GPU performance leaps that outpace Moore’s Law by leveraging innovation across the architecture, chip design, system, and software layers. Our strategy is to target markets where GPUs deliver order-of-magnitude performance advantages relative to legacy approaches. Our market platforms so far include Gaming, Professional Visualization, Data Center, and Automotive. While 
the requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and CUDA as the fundamental building blocks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to make leveraged investments in R&D: we can support several multi-billion dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third party developers and partners. We utilize this platform approach in each of our target markets. 
Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI. We provide a complete, end-to-end GPU computing platform for deep learning and machine learning, addressing both training and inferencing. This includes GPUs, our CUDA programming language, algorithms, libraries, and system software. GPUs are uniquely suited to AI, and we will continue to add AI-specific features to our GPU architecture to further extend our leadership position. Our AI technology leadership is reinforced by our large and expanding ecosystem in a virtuous cycle. Our GPU platforms are available from virtually every major server maker and cloud service provider, as well as on our own AI supercomputer. There are over 1.6 million developers worldwide using CUDA and our other software tools to help deploy our technology in our target markets. We evangelize AI through partnerships with hundreds of universities and more than 3,600 startups through our Inception program. Additionally, our Deep Learning Institute provides instruction on the latest techniques on how to design, train, and deploy neural networks in applications using our accelerated computing platform. 
Extending our technology and platform leadership in visual computing. We believe that visual computing is fundamental to the continued expansion and evolution of computing. We apply our research and development resources to extending our leadership in visual computing, enabling us to enhance the user experience for consumer entertainment and professional visualization applications. Our technologies are instrumental in driving gaming forward, as developers leverage our libraries and algorithms to create near-cinematic and VR experiences. Our close collaboration with game developers allows us to deliver an optimized gaming experience on our GeForce platform. Our GeForce Experience gaming application further enhances each gamer’s experience by optimizing their PC’s settings, as well as enabling the recording and sharing of gameplay. We also enable interactive graphics applications - such as games, movie and photo editing and design software - to be accessed by almost any device, almost anywhere, through our cloud platforms such as GRID for enterprise and GeForce NOW for gaming.
Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform. We believe the advent of AV will soon revolutionize the transportation industry. In our view, AI is the key technology enabler of this opportunity, as the algorithms required for autonomous driving - such as perception, localization, and planning - are too complex for legacy hand-coded approaches, and will run on multiple trained neural networks instead. Therefore, we provided a full functionally safe AI-based hardware and software solution for the AV market under the DRIVE brand, which we are bringing to market through our partnerships with automotive original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, tier-1 suppliers, and start-ups. Our AV solution also includes the GPU-based hardware required to train the neural networks before their in-vehicle deployment, as well as to re-simulate their operation prior to any over-the-air software updates. We believe our comprehensive, top-to-bottom and end-to-end approach will enable the transportation industry to solve the complex problems arising from the shift to autonomous driving. 
Leveraging our intellectual property. We believe our intellectual property is a valuable asset that can be accessed by our customers and partners through licenses and development agreements when they desire to build such capabilities directly into their own products, or have us do so through a custom development. Such license and development arrangements can further enhance the reach of our technology.
Sales and Marketing
Our sales strategy involves working with end customers and various industry ecosystems through our partner network. Our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is key to achieving our objective of providing markets with our high-performance and efficient GPU and embedded system-on-a-chip, or SOC, platforms. Our sales and marketing teams, located across our global markets, work closely with end customers in each industry. Our partner network incorporates each industry's respective OEMs, original device manufacturers, or ODMs, system builders, add-in board manufacturers, or AIBs, retailers/distributors, internet and cloud service providers, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, mapping companies, start-ups, and other ecosystem participants.
Members of our sales team have technical expertise and product and industry knowledge. We also employ a team of application engineers to assist our partner network in designing, testing, and qualifying system designs that incorporate our platforms. We believe that the depth and quality of our design support are key to improving our partner network’s time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction, and fostering relationships that encourage our end customers and partner network to use the next generation of our products within each platform.
To encourage the development of applications optimized for our GPUs, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community. Engineering and marketing personnel engage with key software developers to promote and discuss our platforms, as well as to ascertain individual product requirements and solve technical problems. 
Our developer program makes our products available to developers prior to launch in order to encourage the development of AI frameworks, Software Development Kits, and Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs, for software applications and game titles that are optimized for our platforms. Our Deep Learning Institute provides in-person and online training for developers in industries and organizations around the world to build AI and accelerated computing applications that leverage our GPU and CUDA platforms. We now have over 1.6 million registered developers across our platforms, including accelerated computing, gaming, deep learning, autonomous machines, and others.
As NVIDIA’s business has evolved from a focus primarily on gaming products to broader markets, and from chips to platforms and complete systems, so, too, have our avenues to market. Thus, in addition to sales to customers in our partner network, certain of our platforms are also sold through e-tail channels, or direct to cloud service providers and enterprise customers.
Sales to Dell Technologies Inc., or Dell, accounted for 11% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2020.
Backlog 
Our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders. The quantity of products purchased by our customers as well as our shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers' requirements and in manufacturing availability. Our industry is characterized by relatively short lead time orders and delivery schedules, thus, we believe that only a small portion of our backlog is non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant.
Seasonality
Our GPU and Tegra processor platforms serve many markets from consumer PC gaming to enterprise workstations to government and cloud service provider data centers, although a majority of our revenue stems from the consumer industry. Our consumer products typically see stronger revenue in the second half of our fiscal year. In addition, based on the production schedules of key customers, some of our products for notebooks or game consoles typically generate stronger revenue in the second and third quarters, and weaker revenue in the fourth and first quarters. However, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. 
Manufacturing 
We do not directly manufacture semiconductors used for our products. Instead, we utilize a fabless manufacturing strategy, whereby we employ world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing, and packaging. This strategy uses the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the International Organization for Standardization in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability, and testing. Additionally, we can avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. While we may directly procure certain raw materials used in the production of our products, such as substrates and a variety of components, our suppliers are responsible for procurement of the majority of the raw materials used in the production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on product design, additional quality assurance, marketing, and customer support.
We utilize industry-leading suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, to produce our semiconductor wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors, such as Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Amkor Technology, BYD Auto Co. Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., JSI Logistics Ltd., King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., and Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd. to perform assembly, testing, and packaging of most of our products and platforms. We purchase substrates from IbidenCo. Ltd., Kinsus Interconnect Technology Corporation, and Unimicron Technology Corporation, and memory from Micron Technology, Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., and SK Hynix.
We typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance and configuration, and then ship the semiconductors to contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, distributors, motherboard and AIB customers from our third-party warehouse in Hong Kong. Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design kit and test specifications, and then ship our products to retailers, system builders, or OEMs as motherboard and AIB solutions.
We also utilize industry-leading contract manufacturers, or CMs, such as BYD and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., and ODMs such as Quanta Computer and Wistron Corporation, to manufacture some of our products for sale directly to end customers. In those cases, key elements such as the GPU, SoC and memory are often consigned by us to the CMs, who are responsible for the procurement of other components used in the production process.
Working Capital
We focus considerable attention on managing our inventories and other working-capital-related items. We manage inventories by communicating with our customers and partners and then using our industry experience to forecast demand on a platform-by-platform basis. We then place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on forecasted demand. We generally maintain substantial inventories of our products. A substantial amount of our inventories is maintained as semi-finished products that can be leveraged across a wide range of our processors to balance our customer demands.
Our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances increased by 47% to $10.90 billion at the end of fiscal year 2020 compared with the end of fiscal year 2019.
Competition 
The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers and partners will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be lower priced than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share.
A significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide GPUs, embedded SOCs, and other accelerated and AI computing processor products. Some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes.
Our current competitors include:

•   suppliers and licensors designing discrete and integrated GPUs and other accelerated computing solutions, including chipsets that incorporate 3D graphics, or HPC, such as Advanced Micro Devices, or AMD, Intel Corporation, or Intel, and Xilinx, Inc.;

•   large internet services companies with internal teams designing chips that incorporates HPC or accelerated computing functionality as part of their internal solutions or platforms, such as Alphabet Inc.; and

•   suppliers of SoC products that are embedded into automobiles, autonomous machines, and gaming devices, such as Ambarella, Inc., AMD, Broadcom Inc., Intel, Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas Electronics Corporation, Samsung, and Xilinx, Inc. or companies with internal teams designing SoC products for internal use, such as Tesla Motors.
Patents and Proprietary Rights
We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. Our currently issued patents have expiration dates from March 2020 to October 2039. We have numerous patents issued, allowed, and pending in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations, and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This decreased protection makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as:

•   the location in which our products are manufactured;

•   our strategic technology or product directions in different countries;

•   the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions; and

•   the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions.
We have also licensed technology from third parties and expect to continue to enter into such license agreements.
Employees
As of January 26, 2020, we had 13,775 employees, 9,823 of whom were engaged in research and development and 3,952 of whom were engaged in sales, marketing, operations, and administrative positions. 
Environmental Regulatory Compliance
To date, we have not incurred significant expenses related to environmental regulatory compliance matters. 
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of February 14, 2020:

Name                   Age   Position                                            
Jen-Hsun Huang          56   President and Chief Executive Officer               
Colette M. Kress        52   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Ajay K. Puri            65   Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations
Debora Shoquist         65   Executive Vice President, Operations                
Timothy S. Teter        53   Executive Vice President and General Counsel        
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in 1993 and has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since our inception. From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI's SOC. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford University.
Colette M. Kress joined NVIDIA in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Kress most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Business Technology and Operations Finance organization at Cisco Systems, Inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. At Cisco, Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. From 1997 to 2010 Ms. Kress held a variety of positions at Microsoft Corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, Chief Financial Officer of the Server and Tools division, where Ms. Kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. Prior to joining Microsoft, Ms. Kress spent eight years at Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. Ms. Kress holds a B.S. degree in Finance from University of Arizona and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University.
Ajay K. Puri joined NVIDIA in 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations in 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a computing systems company. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, an information technology company, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., a management and technology consulting company, and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Mr. Puri holds a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of Minnesota, an M.S.E.E. degree from the California Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School.
Debora Shoquist joined NVIDIA in 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and in 2009 became Executive Vice President of Operations. Her role has since expanded with responsibility added for Facilities in 2013, and for Information Technology in 2015. Prior to NVIDIA, Ms. Shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as Executive Vice President of Operations at JDS Uniphase Corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. She served from 2002 to 2004 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. Previously, she worked at Quantum Corp., a data protection company, as President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division, and at Hewlett-Packard Corp. Ms. Shoquist holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Kansas State University and a B.S. degree in Biology from Santa Clara University.
Timothy S. Teter joined NVIDIA in 2017 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in February 2018. Prior to NVIDIA, Mr. Teter spent more than two decades at the law firm of Cooley LLP. He was most recently a partner at Cooley, where he focused on litigating patent and technology related matters. Prior to attending law school, he worked as an engineer at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company. Mr. Teter holds a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Davis and a J.D. degree from Stanford Law School.
Available Information
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC’s website, http://www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

--- RISK FACTORS ---
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
In evaluating NVIDIA and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. Any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.
Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners
If we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, or identify new products, services or technologies, our revenue and financial results may be adversely impacted.
We created GPU-based visual and accelerated computing platforms that address four large markets: Gaming, Professional Visualization, Data Center, and Automotive. These markets often experience rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Our success depends on our ability to identify emerging industry changes and to develop new (or enhance our existing) products, services and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets. Such activities may require considerable technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments. We devote significant resources to the development of technologies and business offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, such as the automotive and data center markets, which presents additional risks to our business. We must also continue to develop the infrastructure needed to scale our business in these areas, including customer service and support. We also must meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are subject to change. Additionally, we continue to make considerable investments in research and development, which may not produce significant revenue for several years, if at all. If our investments are unsuccessful and we fail to develop new products, services and technologies, or if we focus on technologies that do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our strategic direction will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers, partners and ultimately, our shareholders. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities, our business will be harmed.
Competition in our current and target markets could prevent us from growing our revenue.
Our target markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve, customer needs change and new competitors enter these markets. Our competitors’ products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior functionality or better features, than ours, which may result, among other things, in lower than expected selling prices for our products. In addition, some of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, more comprehensive intellectual property, or IP, portfolios and patent protections, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their products, including semiconductor products, to increasingly smaller line width geometries, and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. If we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, respond to changes in our target markets or introduce new offerings to meet the needs of this competitive environment, including in significant international markets such as China, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline and cause our results of operations to suffer. In addition, the competitive landscape in our target markets has changed and may continue to evolve due to a trend toward consolidation, which could lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results.
System security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation.
Security breaches, computer malware, phishing, and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. These threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or 
implement adequate preventative measures. These attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur in the future. Experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. These attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. These hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. For portions of our IT infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. These providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. To defend against security threats, both to our internal systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and reliability features, which may result in increased expenses.
Actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, paying damages, regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. Our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. We may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.
We depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business.
We do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our GPUs and Tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. Similarly, we do not directly assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors. We do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. As a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including:

•   a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints;

•   a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate or any manufacturing or test capacity for our products;

•   a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory designs needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis;

•   a limited number of suppliers, including foundries, assembly and test providers, and memory manufacturers;

•   loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier;

•   a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and

•   delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors’ orders over our orders or otherwise.
In addition, low manufacturing yields could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand, increase manufacturing costs, harm customer or partner relationships, and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. Manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. Low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. We do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. 
We also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. In the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available 
software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. The design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. If we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed.
For our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor. Achieving design wins may involve a lengthy process in pursuit of a customer opportunity and depend on our ability to anticipate features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand. Failure to obtain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product. This could result in lost revenue and could weaken our position in future competitive bid selection processes. 
Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. Further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, including safety standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. Winning a product design does not guarantee sales to a customer or that we will realize as much revenue as anticipated, if any.
If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share.
Our products are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, including into the automotive market, or as new versions are released. Some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and Tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers and partners and harm consumers’ perceptions of our brand. Also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall, including automotive recalls or a recall due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us, such as product liability suits. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results.
Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a large portion of our current data center capacity is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and Korea. Additionally, a significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through Hong Kong. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. In particular, revisions to laws or regulations or their 
interpretation and enforcement could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans. For example, regulations to implement the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 could have an adverse effect on our business plans. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for IT and research and development systems and personnel. Our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations.
In January 2020, a novel strain of coronavirus was identified in China, resulting in shutdowns of manufacturing and commerce, as well as global travel restrictions to contain the virus. The impact has extended to other regions. We have operations and employees in China, and the region represents an important end market for our products. Our customers and suppliers within China and neighboring countries are also affected by the coronavirus related restrictions and closures. The coronavirus is expected to have a negative effect on our financial results, though the full extent and duration is uncertain and could have a material negative impact on our business. 
If we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed.
We manufacture our GPUs and Tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand and requirements. We sell many of our products through a channel model, and our channel customers sell to retailers, distributors, and/or end customers. As a result, the decisions made by our channel partners, retailers, and distributors in response to changing market conditions and the changing demand for our products could impact our financial results. In order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, may build inventory anticipating demand that does not materialize, or may build inventory to serve what we believe is pent-up demand. Such decisions may and have resulted in prolonged channel sell-through, as we experienced with our mid-range gaming GPUs in fiscal year 2019. In estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include:

•   changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy;

•   changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market;

•   a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products;

•   a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements;

•   our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products;

•   less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or

•   increased competition, including competitive pricing actions.
The cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. We could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results.
Conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. We may also face supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. In such cases, even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. If we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our partner network and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our distribution and partner network. With several of these distributors and partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms through their channels. For fiscal year 2020, 11% of our total revenue was from one customer, Dell. Our operating results in the foreseeable 
future will continue to depend on sales within our partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products that incorporate our GPUs and Tegra processors. In the future, these partners may decide to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because:

•   most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty;

•   our partners may develop their own solutions;

•   our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or

•   our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products.
We could also be restricted from selling our products or providing our technology and services due to U.S. trade restrictions. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in purchases by them, or our inability to sell to a customer due to U.S. trade restrictions would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations, and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition.
We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers. In the future, we may have to record additional provisions or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions, which could negatively impact our financial results, and we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient.
We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, which may harm our business.
We conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the United States. Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the United States. We also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the United States. We allocate revenue to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if our customers’ revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. Revenue from sales outside of the United States accounted for 92% of total revenue for fiscal year 2020, and 87% for each of fiscal years 2019 and 2018. Revenue from billings to China, including Hong Kong, was 25% of our revenue for fiscal year 2020, even if our customers' revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. Additionally, as of January 26, 2020, approximately 46% of our employees were located outside of the United States. The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including:

•   international economic and political conditions, including as a result of the United Kingdom's vote to withdraw from the European Union, and other political tensions between countries in which we do business;

•   unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws;

•   differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices;

•   local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws and regulations;

•   exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, including deemed export restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions;

•   disruptions of capital and trading markets and currency fluctuations; and

•   increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits.
If our sales outside of the United States are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted.
If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. 
To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. In particular, hiring qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and research and development personnel is critical to our business. Additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or interpretation of such laws or regulations could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. If we are less successful 
in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for personnel results in increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation. The interpretation and application of employment related laws to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments, including the Mellanox acquisition, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products.
We have in the past acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products, strategic objectives and business. In March 2019, we announced our agreement to acquire Mellanox for approximately $6.9 billion. The Mellanox acquisition and other past or future acquisitions or investments involve significant challenges and risks, and could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. Additional risks related to the Mellanox acquisition, and other acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited to:

•   difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business;

•   diversion of capital and other resources, including management’s attention;

•   assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets;

•   integrating financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles;

•   coordinating and integrating operations in countries in which we have not previously operated;

•   difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return, if at all;

•   difficulty in obtaining regulatory, other approvals or financing;

•   failure and costs associated with the failure to consummate a proposed acquisition or other strategic investment;

•   legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment;

•   uncertainties and time needed to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all;

•   negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the industries in which we or our target operate;

•   the need to later divest acquired assets if an acquisition does not meet our expectations;

•   potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the acquired assets or company; and

•   impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target’s, employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment.
Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Common Stock and Other Matters
Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products.
We have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. An unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel.
We may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. Further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. If infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party’s patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party’s patent or other intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from 
a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results.
Our success depends in part on protecting our intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and even with significant expenditures we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights that are valuable to our business. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. In addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline.
Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. Therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance.
Factors, other than those described elsewhere in these risk factors, that could affect our results of operations in the future include, but are not limited to:

•   our ability to achieve volume production of our next-generation products;

•   our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services;

•   fluctuations in the demand for our products related to cryptocurrencies;

•   changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our partners’ products;

•   our ability to cover the manufacturing and design costs of our products through competitive pricing;

•   our ability to comply and continue to comply with our customers’ contractual obligations;

•   product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues;

•   our ability to secure appropriate safety certifications and meet industry safety standards;

•   supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our products

•   inventory write-downs;

•   our ability to continue generating revenue from our partner network, including by generating sales within our partner network and ensuring our products are incorporated into our partners product ecosystems, and our partner network’s ability to sell products that incorporate our GPUs and Tegra processors;

•   the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments to us, and our ability to obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers;

•   customer bad debt write-offs;

•   any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities;

•   unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property;

•   changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and

•   general macroeconomic or industry events and factors affecting the overall market and our target markets.
Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. Any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility.
Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings.
Our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to defending legal claims.
Worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which requires companies to meet new requirements effective as of May 2018 regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. Complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity.
We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates.
As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Further, changes in United States federal, and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations or other fundamental law changes may materially impact our tax expense and cash flows, as we experienced in fiscal year 2018 with the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA.
Our future effective tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, changes in our business or statutory rates, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in available tax credits, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and in deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation and the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies within the income tax provision in the period in which they occur, the impact of accounting for business combinations, shifts in the amount of earnings in the United States compared with other regions in the world and overall levels of income before tax, changes in our international organization, as well as the expiration of statute of limitations and settlements of audits. Any changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income.
Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings.
We currently and may in the future face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to our business on a global basis. For example, multiple securities litigation claims have recently been filed against us and certain of our officers based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. In addition, a stockholder, purporting to act on behalf of the Company, filed a derivative lawsuit seeking to assert claims on behalf of the Company against the members of our board of directors and certain officers based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. 
Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. In addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. 
In addition, the laws and regulations our business is subject to are complex and change frequently. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with changes in, or remedy violations of, these laws and regulations.
Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft Corporation could delay or prevent a change in control.
Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the following:

•   the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval;

•   the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent;

•   advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals;

•   the ability of our Board of Directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval;

•   a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;

•   the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and

•   the ability of our Board of Directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws.
On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The Microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.

--- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS ---
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with “Item 1A. Risk Factors”, “Item 6. Selected Financial Data”, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. 
Overview
Our Company and Our Businesses
NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. Starting with a focus on PC graphics, we extended our focus in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. Fueled by the sustained demand for exceptional 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA leveraged its GPU architecture to create platforms for VR, HPC, and AI.
Our two reportable segments - GPU and Tegra Processor - are based on a single underlying graphics architecture. From our proprietary processors, we have created platforms that address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Gaming, Professional Visualization, Data Center, and Automotive.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for game consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices. 
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, NVIDIA was incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998.
Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges
Fiscal Year 2020 Summary

                                                                                      Year Ended
                                      January 26,                 January 27,          Change   
                                             2020                        2019                   
                                                          ($ in millions, except per share data)
Revenue                            $10,918                     $11,716                 Down 7%  
Gross margin                          62.0      %   61.2                    %          Up 80 bps
Operating expenses                  $3,922                      $3,367                 Up 16%   
Income from operations              $2,846                      $3,804                 Down 25% 
Net income                          $2,796                      $4,141                 Down 32% 
Net income per diluted share         $4.52                       $6.63                 Down 32% 
Revenue for fiscal year 2020 was $10.92 billion, down 7% from a year earlier. GPU business revenue was $9.47 billion, down 7% from a year earlier. Tegra Processor business revenue - which includes Automotive, SoCs for gaming platforms, and embedded edge AI platforms - was $1.45 billion, down 6% from a year earlier.
From a market platform perspective, Gaming revenue was $5.52 billion, down 12% from a year ago, reflecting lower sales of GeForce desktop GPUs and SoCs for gaming platforms, partially offset by growth in GeForce notebook GPUs.
Professional Visualization revenue was $1.21 billion, up 7% from a year ago, reflecting strength in desktop and notebook workstations.
Data Center revenue was $2.98 billion, up 2% from a year ago, driven by vertical industry growth partially offset by lower hyperscale sales.
Automotive revenue was $700 million, up 9% from a year ago, reflecting growth in AI cockpit solutions and development services agreements. 
OEM and Other revenue was $505 million, down 34% from a year ago, primarily due to the absence of cryptocurrency-specific product sales.
Gross margin for fiscal year 2020 was 62.0%, up 80 basis points from a year ago, primarily driven by reduced inventory provisions and the sale of previously written-off components. 
Operating expenses for fiscal year 2020 were $3.92 billion, up 16% from a year ago, reflecting primarily employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation and infrastructure costs. 
Income from operations for fiscal year 2020 was $2.85 billion, down 25% from a year earlier. Net income and net income per diluted share for fiscal year 2020 were $2.80 billion and $4.52, respectively, both down 32% from a year earlier reflecting lower revenue and higher operating expenses.
On March 10, 2019, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Mellanox Technologies Ltd., or Mellanox, pursuant to which we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mellanox for $125 per share in cash, representing a total enterprise value of approximately $6.9 billion as of the date of the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants. The consummation of the merger is conditioned on the receipt of the approval of Mellanox shareholders, as well as the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions, including domestic and foreign regulatory approvals and performance in all material respects by each party of its obligations under the Merger Agreement. In June 2019, Mellanox shareholders approved the consummation of the merger and we received regulatory approvals for the deal from Mexico in July 2019 and from the European Commission in December 2019. In addition, the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, in connection with the proposed acquisition expired in May 2019. Discussions with China's regulatory agency, the State Administration for Market Regulation, are progressing and we believe the acquisition will likely close in the early part of calendar 2020. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
In November 2018, we communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. In fiscal year 2020, we returned $390 million in quarterly cash dividends. We did not repurchase any shares during fiscal year 2020. We intend to return to repurchasing shares after closing the acquisition of Mellanox.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $10.90 billion as of January 26, 2020, compared with $7.42 billion as of January 27, 2019. The increase primarily reflects growth in operating cash flow.
In January 2020, a novel strain of coronavirus was identified in China, resulting in shutdowns of manufacturing and commerce, as well as global travel restrictions to contain the virus. The impact has extended to other regions. We have operations and employees in China, and the region represents an important end market for our products. Our customers and suppliers within China and neighboring countries are also affected by the coronavirus related restrictions and closures. The coronavirus is expected to have a negative effect on our financial results, though the full extent and duration is uncertain and could have a material negative impact on our business. 
GPU Business
In Gaming, we extended NVIDIA’s family of Turing-based GPUs with the GeForce GTX 1660 Ti, GTX 1660 and GTX 1650, as well as with our new SUPER line, including the GeForce RTX 2080 SUPER, RTX 2070 SUPER, RTX 2060 SUPER, GTX 1660 SUPER, and GTX 1650 SUPER; and accelerated momentum of ray-tracing games by supporting a growing list of titles; introduced new RTX Studio laptops powered by GeForce RTX and Quadro RTX GPUs for online and studio-based creatives and prosumer customers; unveiled two new models of the SHIELD TV streaming media player; and introduced two new service offerings for GeForce NOW cloud gaming service. 
In Professional Visualization, we expanded adoption of NVIDIA RTX ray-tracing technology by 3D application providers; rolled out a full range of Turing-based Quadro GPUs for mobile workstations, incorporating ray tracing for product design, architecture, effects and scientific visualization; and unveiled the NVIDIA Omniverse open-collaboration platform to simplify creative workflows for content creation. 
In Data Center, we introduced the NVIDIA CUDA-X AI platform for accelerating data science; announced availability of NVIDIA T4 Tensor Core GPUs from leading OEMs and cloud service providers; unveiled the DGX SuperPOD; and announced support for Arm CPUs, providing a new path to build AI-enabled exascale supercomputers, as well as a collaboration with Arm and others on a reference design for GPU accelerated Arm-based servers. We launched the NVIDIA EGX Intelligent Edge Computing Platform, bringing accelerated AI to vertical industries; and announced a collaboration to integrate Microsoft 
Azure with EGX, as well as plans for a scalable GPU-accelerated supercomputer in the Microsoft Azure cloud. Additionally, we entered the 5G telecom market, enabling telcos to build efficient, virtualized 5G RANs; announced a collaboration to deliver software-defined 5G RAN; and announced that Alibaba and Baidu’s recommendation engines run on NVIDIA AI.
Tegra Processor Business
In our Automotive platform, we announced a partnership with Toyota Research Institute-Advanced Development to develop, train and validate self-driving vehicles; unveiled the NVIDIA DRIVE AP2X automated driving solution, encompassing DRIVE AutoPilot software, DRIVE AGX and DRIVE validation tools; introduced the NVIDIA DRIVE AV Safety Force Field to enable safe, comfortable driving experiences; and announced availability of the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation autonomous vehicle simulation platform.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingencies. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to inventories, revenue recognition, income taxes, and goodwill. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities.
We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Inventories
Inventory cost is computed on an adjusted standard basis, which approximates actual cost on an average or first-in, first-out basis. We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or to completely write off obsolete or excess inventory. Most of our inventory provisions relate to the write-off of excess quantities of products or components, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase commitments compared to assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include changes in business and economic conditions, changes in market conditions, sudden and significant decreases in demand for our products, inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, failure to estimate customer demand properly, or unexpected competitive pricing actions by our competition. In addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory.
The overall net effect on our gross margin from inventory provisions and sales of items previously written down was insignificant in fiscal year 2020 and an unfavorable impact of 2.0% in fiscal year 2019. The charges we took to cost of sales for inventory provisions during fiscal year 2019 were primarily related to excess DRAM, other components, and prior architecture components and chips. As a fabless semiconductor company, we must make commitments to purchase inventory based on forecasts of future customer demand. In doing so, we must account for our third-party manufacturers' lead times and constraints. We also adjust to other market factors, such as product offerings and pricing actions by our competitors, new product transitions, and macroeconomic conditions - all of which may impact demand for our products.
Refer to the Gross Profit and Gross Margin discussion below in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.
Revenue Recognition
We derive our revenue from product sales, including hardware and systems, license and development arrangements, and software licensing. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: (1) identification of the contract with a customer; (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determination of the transaction price; (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
Product Sales Revenue
Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns, customer programs and any taxes collected from customers.
For products sold with a right of return, we record a reduction to revenue by establishing a sales return allowance for estimated product returns at the time revenue is recognized, based primarily on historical return rates. However, if product returns for a fiscal period are anticipated to exceed historical return rates, we may determine that additional sales return allowances are required to properly reflect our estimated exposure for product returns.
Our customer programs involve rebates, which are designed to serve as sales incentives to resellers of our products in various target markets, and marketing development funds, or MDFs, which represent monies paid to our partners that are earmarked for market segment development and are designed to support our partners’ activities while also promoting NVIDIA products. We account for customer programs as a reduction to revenue and accrue for potential rebates and MDFs based on the amount we expect to be claimed by customers.
License and Development Arrangements
Our license and development arrangements with customers typically require significant customization of our intellectual property components. As a result, we recognize the revenue from the license and the revenue from the development services as a single performance obligation over the period in which the development services are performed. We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project. If a loss on an arrangement becomes probable during a period, we record a provision for such loss in that period.
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Income Taxes
We recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities, as appropriate, for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; and we record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized.
Our calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting standards or tax laws in the United States, or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential United States and foreign income tax contingencies based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be due. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements accordingly.
As of January 26, 2020, we had a valuation allowance of $621 million related to state and certain foreign deferred tax assets that management determined are not likely to be realized due to jurisdictional projections of future taxable income and potential utilization limitations of tax attributes acquired as a result of stock ownership changes. To the extent realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more-likely-than-not, we would recognize such deferred tax asset as an income tax benefit during the period.
We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Goodwill
Goodwill is subject to our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or earlier, if indicators of potential impairment exist, using either a qualitative or a quantitative assessment. Our impairment review process compares the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. We have identified two reporting units, 
GPU and Tegra Processor, for the purposes of completing our goodwill analysis. Goodwill assigned to the GPU and Tegra Processor reporting units as of January 26, 2020 was $210 million and $408 million, respectively. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We also make judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain.
We performed our annual goodwill assessment during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a qualitative assessment and concluded there was no goodwill impairment.
Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Results of Operations
A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov and at our investor relations website, http://investor.nvidia.com.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our Consolidated Statements of Income expressed as a percentage of revenue. 

                                                            Year Ended
                                      January 26,          January 27,
                                             2020                 2019
Revenue                             100.0   %            100.0       %
Cost of revenue                      38.0                 38.8        
Gross profit                         62.0                 61.2        
Operating expenses:                                                   
Research and development             25.9                 20.3        
Sales, general and administrative    10.0                  8.5        
Total operating expenses             35.9                 28.7        
Income from operations               26.1                 32.5        
Interest income                       1.6                  1.2        
Interest expense                     (0.5   )             (0.5       )
Other, net                              —                  0.1        
Total other income                    1.1                  0.8        
Income before income tax expense     27.2                 33.3        
Income tax expense (benefit)          1.6                 (2.1       )
Net income                           25.6   %             35.3       %
Revenue
Revenue by Reportable Segments

                  Year Ended                                                              
                  January 26,           January 27,           $Change            %Change  
                  2020                  2019                                              
                  ($ in millions)                                                         
GPU               $9,465                $10,175               $(710     )        (7    )% 
Tegra Processor   1,453                 1,541                 (88       )        (6    )% 
Total             $10,918               $11,716               $(798     )        (7    )% 
GPU Business. GPU business revenue decreased by 7% in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, which reflects a decline in GPUs sold for gaming. GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased by 10%, reflecting lower sales of GeForce 
desktop GPUs and SoCs for gaming platforms, partially offset by growth in GeForce notebook GPUs. Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased by 7%, reflecting strength in desktop and notebook workstations. Data Center revenue, which includes Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased by 2%, driven by vertical industry growth partially offset by lower hyperscale sales.
Tegra Processor Business.  Tegra Processor business revenue decreased by 6% in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019. This was driven by a decline in revenue from SoCs for gaming platforms, which was partially offset by an increase of 9% in Automotive revenue, reflecting growth in AI cockpit solutions and development services agreements. 
Concentration of Revenue
Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 92% and 87% of total revenue for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location.
Dell represented approximately 11% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2020 and was attributable to the GPU business. No customer represented 10% or more of total revenue for fiscal year 2019.
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, board and device costs, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions, memory and component costs, and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license and service arrangements and stock-based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing. 
Our overall gross margin was 62.0% and 61.2% for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2020 was driven by reduced inventory provisions and the sale of previously written-off components. 
Inventory provisions totaled $161 million and $270 million for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. Sales of inventory that was previously written-off or written-down totaled $145 million and $41 million for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a result, the overall net effect on our gross margin was insignificant in fiscal year 2020 and an unfavorable impact of 2.0% in fiscal year 2019.
A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our reportable segments is as follows: 
GPU Business. The gross margin of our GPU business increased during fiscal year 2020 when compared to fiscal year 2019, primarily driven by reduced inventory provisions and the sale of previously written-off components.
Tegra Processor Business. The gross margin of our Tegra Processor business was relatively flat during fiscal year 2020 when compared to fiscal year 2019.
Operating Expenses

                                                                                                           Year Ended
                                                 January 26,           January 27,       $Change              %Change
                                                        2020                  2019                                   
                                                                                                      ($ in millions)
Research and development expenses               $2,829                $2,376             $453                19   %  
% of net revenue                                  25.9     %            20.3     %                                   
Sales, general and administrative expenses       1,093                   991         102                     10   %  
% of net revenue                                  10.0     %             8.5     %                                   
Total operating expenses                        $3,922                $3,367             $555                16   %  
Research and Development
Research and development expenses increased by 19% in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including infrastructure costs and stock-based compensation expense.
29

Sales, General and Administrative
Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 10% in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including infrastructure costs and stock-based compensation expense. 
Total Other Income, Net
Interest Income and Interest Expense
Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income was $178 million and $136 million in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in interest income was primarily due to higher average invested balances.
Interest expense is primarily comprised of coupon interest and debt discount amortization related to the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and 3.20% Notes Due 2026 issued in September 2016. Interest expense was $52 million and $58 million in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Other, Net
Other, net, consists primarily of realized or unrealized gains and losses from non-affiliated investments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates. Other, net, was not significant during fiscal year 2020 and was $14 million of income during fiscal year 2019, consisting primarily of $12 million unrealized gains from non-affiliated investments. 
Income Taxes
We recognized income tax expense of $174 million for fiscal year 2020 and income tax benefit of $245 million for fiscal year 2019. Our annual effective tax rate was 5.9% and (6.3)% for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2020 as compared to fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to a decrease of tax benefits from stock-based compensation and an absence of tax benefits related to the enactment of the TCJA.
Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2020 and 2019 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due primarily to income earned in jurisdictions, including the British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong, where the tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rates, favorable recognition of U.S. federal research tax credits, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, and the finalization of the enactment-date income tax effects of the TCJA in 2019.
Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 

                                                        January 26,           January 27,
                                                               2020                  2019
                                                                            (In millions)
Cash and cash equivalents                             $10,896                  $782      
Marketable securities                                       1                 6,640      
Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities     $10,897                $7,422      

                                                      Year Ended                           
                                                      January 26,           January 27,    
                                                      2020                  2019           
                                                      (In millions)                        
Net cash provided by operating activities             $4,761                $3,743         
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities   $6,145                $(4,097     )  
Net cash used in financing activities                 $(792       )         $(2,866     )  
As of January 26, 2020, we had $10.90 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $3.48 billion from the end of fiscal year 2019. Our investment policy requires the purchase of highly rated fixed income securities, the diversification of investment types and credit exposures, and certain limits on our portfolio duration.
Cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, primarily due to changes in working capital driven by a reduction in inventory, partially offset by a decrease in operating income.
Cash used in investing activities decreased in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, primarily due to lower purchases, higher sales, and lower maturities of marketable securities in preparation for the acquisition of Mellanox.
Cash used in financing activities decreased in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, primarily due to no share repurchases in fiscal year 2020 and lower tax payments related to employee stock plans.
Liquidity
Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, our marketable securities, and the cash generated by our operations. As of January 26, 2020, we had $10.90 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, including our proposed acquisition of Mellanox. Refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Our marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the United States government and its agencies, highly rated corporations and financial institutions, asset-backed issuers, and foreign government entities. These marketable securities are denominated in United States dollars. Refer to Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
During fiscal year 2021, we expect our capital investment to be approximately $700 million to $900 million to fund property and equipment including construction of a new building at our Santa Clara campus. 
As a result of the TCJA, substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside of the United States as of January 26, 2020 are available for use in the United States without incurring additional U.S. federal income taxes. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.
Capital Return to Shareholders
In November 2018, we communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. In fiscal year 2020, we returned $390 million in quarterly cash dividends. We did not repurchase any shares during fiscal year 2020. We intend to return to repurchasing shares after closing the acquisition of Mellanox. As of January 26, 2020, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.
Our cash dividend program and the payment of future cash dividends under that program are subject to our Board's continuing determination that the dividend program and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders. Refer to Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.
Outstanding Indebtedness and Credit Facilities
We have outstanding $1.00 billion of Notes due 2021 and $1.00 billion of Notes due 2026, collectively, the Notes.
We have a Credit Agreement under which we may borrow up to $575 million for general corporate purposes and can obtain revolving loan commitments up to $425 million. As of January 26, 2020, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.
We have a $575 million commercial paper program to support general corporate purposes. As of January 26, 2020, we had not issued any commercial paper.
Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
As of January 26, 2020, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by applicable SEC regulations. 
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 26, 2020:

                                                                                                                             Payment Due By Period
Contractual Obligations                  Total             Less than1 Year             1-3 Years             4-5 Years       More than5 Years     
                                                                                                                                     (In millions)
Long-term debt (1)                  $2,248                     $54                  $1,078                   $64             $1,052               
Inventory purchase obligations       1,156                   1,156                       —                     —             —                    
Transition tax payable (2)             351                      33           67                    146                   105                      
Operating leases (3)                   773                     121           219                   141                   292                      
Capital purchase obligations           186                     186                       —                     —             —                    
Total contractual obligations       $4,714                  $1,550                  $1,364                  $351             $1,449               

(1)   Represents the aggregate principal amount of $2.00 billion and anticipated interest payments of $248 million for the Notes. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(2)   Represents our remaining tax payable of the one-time transition tax that resulted from enactment of the TCJA in fiscal year 2018. As of January 26, 2020, we have paid the first two installments totaling $67 million. The remaining will be payable in six annual installments. The next installment of $33 million is classified as a current income tax payable. The installment amounts are equal to 8% of the total liability, payable in fiscal years 2019 through 2023, 15% in fiscal year 2024, 20% in fiscal year 2025 and 25% in fiscal year 2026. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(3)   For further information, refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $211 million which consists of $180 million and the related interest and penalties of $31 million recorded in non-current income tax payable as of January 26, 2020. We are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of any potential tax liability or interest/penalty payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the underlying income tax positions and the timing of the effective settlement of such tax positions. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.

--- BALANCE SHEET ---
[3m                                Consolidated Balance Sheets (Standardized)                                [0m
[3m                    [0m[1;3mFiscal Year Ended[0m[3m [0m[3m(In millions, except shares and per share data)[0m[3m                     [0m
                                                                                                          
 [1m [0m[1m                                                                        [0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 26, 2020[0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 27, 2019[0m[1m [0m 
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── 
    ASSETS                                                                                                
      Current assets:                                                                                     
        Cash and Cash Equivalents                                                 $10,896           $782  
        Current Marketable Securities                                                  $1         $6,640  
        Accounts Receivable                                                        $1,657         $1,424  
        Inventory                                                                    $979         $1,575  
        Prepaid Expenses                                                             $157           $136  
        Total Current Assets                                                      $13,690        $10,557  
      Property, Plant and Equipment                                                $1,674         $1,404  
      Operating lease assets                                                         $618                 
      Goodwill                                                                       $618           $618  
      Intangible Assets                                                               $49            $45  
      Deferred income tax assets                                                     $548           $560  
      Other Assets                                                                   $118           $108  
      Total Assets                                                                $17,315        $13,292  
    LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY                                                                  
      Current liabilities:                                                                                
        Accounts Payable                                                             $687           $511  
        Accrued Liabilities                                                        $1,097           $818  
        Total Current Liabilities                                                  $1,784         $1,329  
      Long-Term Debt                                                               $1,991         $1,988  
      Long-term operating lease liabilities                                          $561                 
      Other Liabilities                                                              $775           $633  
      Total Liabilities                                                            $5,111         $3,950  
      Commitments and contingencies - see Note 13                                                         
      Shareholders’ equity:                                                                               
        Preferred stock, $.001 par value; 2 shares authorized; none issued                                
        Common Stock                                                                   $1             $1  
        Additional paid-in capital                                                 $7,045         $6,051  
        Treasury Stock Common Value                                              $(9,814)       $(9,263)  
        Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/Loss                                    $1          $(12)  
        Retained Earnings                                                         $14,971        $12,565  
        Total Stockholders' Equity                                                $12,204         $9,342  
      Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                                  $17,315        $13,292

--- INCOME STATEMENT ---
[3m                             Consolidated Statement of Income (Standardized)                             [0m
[3m                       [0m[1;3mYear Ended[0m[3m [0m[3m(In millions, except shares and per share data)[0m[3m                        [0m
                                                                                                         
 [1m [0m[1m                                                        [0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 26, 2020[0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 27, 2019[0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 28, 2018[0m[1m [0m 
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── 
    Revenue                                                       $10,918        $11,716         $9,714  
    Cost of Revenue                                              $(4,150)       $(4,545)       $(3,892)  
    Gross Profit                                                   $6,768         $7,171         $5,822  
    Operating Expenses                                                                                   
      Research and Development Expense                             $2,829         $2,376         $1,797  
      Selling, General and Administrative Expense                  $1,093           $991           $815  
      Operating Expenses                                         $(3,922)       $(3,367)       $(2,612)  
    Operating Income                                               $2,846         $3,804         $3,210  
    Interest income                                                  $178           $136            $69  
    Interest Expense                                                $(52)          $(58)          $(61)  
    Other, net                                                       $(2)            $14          $(22)  
    Nonoperating Income/Expense                                      $124            $92          $(14)  
    Income before income tax                                       $2,970         $3,896         $3,196  
    Income Tax Expense                                               $174         $(245)           $149  
    Net Income                                                     $2,796         $4,141         $3,047  
    Net Income                                                                                           
      Earnings Per Share                                             4.59           6.81           5.09  
      Earnings Per Share (Diluted)                                   4.52           6.63           4.82  
    Weighted average shares used in per share computation:                                               
      Shares Outstanding                                              609            608            599  
      Shares Outstanding (Diluted)                                    618            625            632

--- CASH FLOW STATEMENT ---
[3m                         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Standardized)                          [0m
[3m                      [0m[1;3mYear Ended[0m[3m [0m[3m(In millions, except shares and per share data)[0m[3m                      [0m
                                                                                                      
 [1m [0m[1m                                                     [0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 26, 2020[0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 27, 2019[0m[1m [0m [1m [0m[1mJan 28, 2018[0m[1m [0m 
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── 
    Cash flows from operating activities:                                                             
      Net Income                                                $2,796         $4,141         $3,047  
      Net Income                                                                                      
        Stock-based compensation expense                        $(844)         $(557)         $(391)  
        Depreciation and Amortization                             $381           $262           $199  
        Deferred income taxes                                      $18         $(315)         $(359)  
        Loss on early debt conversions                                                           $19  
        Other                                                       $5          $(45)            $20  
        Changes in operating assets and liabilities:                                                  
          Accounts Receivable                                   $(233)         $(149)         $(440)  
          Inventories                                             $597         $(776)                 
          Prepaid expenses and other assets                        $77          $(55)            $21  
          Accounts Payable                                        $194         $(135)            $90  
          Accrued and other current liabilities                    $54           $256            $33  
          Other long-term liabilities                              $28             $2           $481  
      Net Cash from Operating Activities                        $4,761         $3,743         $3,502  
    Cash flows from investing activities:                                                             
      Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities         $4,744         $7,232         $1,078  
      Proceeds from Sale of Debt Securities,                    $3,365           $428           $863  
      Purchases of marketable securities                      $(1,461)      $(11,148)          $(36)  
      Investments and other, net                                 $(14)           $(9)          $(36)  
      Net Cash from Investing Activities                        $6,145       $(4,097)         $1,278  
    Cash flows from financing activities:                                                             
      Payments related to repurchases of common stock                        $(1,579)         $(909)  
      Repayment of Convertible Notes                                            $(16)         $(812)  
      Payments of Dividends                                     $(390)         $(371)         $(341)  
      Tax Withholding for Share-Based Compensation              $(551)       $(1,032)         $(612)  
      Other                                                                      $(5)           $(9)  
      Net Cash from Financing Activities                        $(792)       $(2,866)       $(2,544)  
    Net Change in Cash                                         $10,114       $(3,220)         $2,236  
    Cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                                        
    Cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                                        
    Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:                                                
      Income Tax Expense                                          $176            $61            $22  
      Cash paid for interest                                       $54            $55            $55  
    Non-cash investing and financing activity:                                                        
      Assets acquired by assuming related liabilities             $212            $76            $36

